# Core Concepts (19%)


## Understand the Kubernetes API primitives.

Kubernetes API :

- is RESTful, Work with standard HTTP verbs POST, PUT, DELETE, and GET)
- also exposes additional endpoints for non-standard verbs and
allows alternative content types.
- APIs preferentially accept and return JSON.
- JSON accepted and returned by the server has a schema, identified by the "kind" and "apiVersion" fields.
- Complete API details are documented using Swagger v1.2 and OpenAPI.


[Click for read API Changes](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/devel/api_changes.md)

### API versioning

Kubernetes use the version at the API level rather than at the resource and supports multiple API versions. Ex: /api/v1 for one resource and /apis/extensions/v1beta1 for other resource.

The JSON and Protobuf serialization schemas follow the same guidelines for schema changes - all descriptions below cover both formats.

Different API versions imply different levels of stability and support. The criteria for each level are described in more detail in the API Changes documentation. They are summarized here:

**Alpha level:**
- The version names contain alpha (e.g. v1alpha1).
- May be buggy. Enabling the feature may expose bugs. Disabled by efault.
- Support for feature may be dropped at any time without notice.
- The API may change in incompatible ways in a later software release without notice.
-  Recommended for use only in short-lived testing clusters, due to increased risk of bugs and lack of long-term support.

**Beta level:**
- The version names contain beta (e.g. v2beta3).
- Code is well tested. Enabling the feature is considered safe. Enabled by default.
- Support for the overall feature will not be dropped, though details may change.
-  The schema and/or semantics of objects may change in incompatible ways in a subsequent beta or stable release.
- Recommended for only non-business-critical uses because of potential for incompatible changes in subsequent releases.

**Stable level:**
- The version name is vX where X is an integer.
- Stable versions of features will appear in released software for many subsequent versions.

### API groups

- API group make easier to extend the Kubernetes API
- API group is specified in a REST path and in the apiVersion field of a serialized object.
- core group is at the REST path /api/v1 and uses apiVersion: v1.
- the named groups are at REST path /apis/$GROUP_NAME/$VERSION and use apiVersion: $GROUP_NAME/$VERSION (e.g. apiVersion: batch/v1).
- extensions resources. (e.g. apiextensions.k8s.io/v1beta1  )  
- disable resources in the groups => extensions/v1beta1/deployments=false


#### API conventions

The following terms are defined:

 **Kind**:  the name of a particular object schema would have different attributes and properties.

**Resource**:  a representation of a system entity, sent or retrieved as JSON
via HTTP to the server. Resources are exposed via:
  * Collections - a list of resources of the same type, which may be queryable
  * Elements - an individual resource, addressable via a URL

**API Group**:  a set of resources that are exposed together. Along
with the version is exposed in the "apiVersion" field as "GROUP/VERSION", e.g.
"policy.k8s.io/v1".

Conventions

- each resource typically accepts and returns data of a single kind.
- a kind may be accepted or returned by multiple resources that reflect specific use cases.
- the kind "Pod" is exposed as a "pods" resource that allows end users to create, update, and delete pods, while a separate "pod status" resource (that acts on "Pod" kind) allows automated processes to update a subset of the fields in that resource.
- resources are bound together in API groups
- each group may have one or more versions that evolve independent of other API groups
- each version within the group has one or more resources.
- group names are typically in domain name form
- the Kubernetes project reserves use of the empty group, all single word names ("extensions", "apps"), and any group name ending in".k8s.io" for its sole use.
- when choosing a group name is recommend selecting a subdomain your group or organization owns, such as "widget.mycompany.com".
- resource collections should be all lowercase and plural,
- whereas kinds are CamelCase and singular.
- group names must be lower case and be valid DNS subdomains.



**Types (Kinds)**

Kinds are grouped into three categories:

**Objects**
* represent a persistent entity in the system.
* An object may have multiple resources
* clients can use to perform specific actions that create, update, delete, or get.
* Examples: `Pod`, `ReplicationController`, `Service`, `Namespace`, `Node`.

**Lists**

* are collections of **resources** of one (usually) or more
(occasionally) kinds.
- The name of a list kind must end with "List".
- Lists have a limited set of common metadata.
- All lists use the required "items" field to contain the array
of objects they return.
- any kind that has the "items" field must be a list kind.
   Most objects defined in the system should have an endpoint that returns the
- all lists that return objects with labels should support label filtering and most lists should support filtering by fields.
- Examples: `PodLists`, `ServiceLists`, `NodeLists`


**Simple**
* are used for specific actions on objects and for non-persistent entities.
- they have the same set of limited common metadata as lists.
  For instance, the "Status" kind is returned when errors occur and is not
persisted in the system.
- Many simple resources are "subresources", which are rooted at API paths of specific resources. When resources wish to expose alternative actions or views
that are closely coupled to a single resource, they should do so using new
sub-resources.

.
.

`note:` For a deeper understanding of the Kubernetes API structure read [this](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/devel/api-conventions.md#defaulting) documentation.

Content:

  - Kinds
    - Resources
    - Objects
      - Metadata
      - Spec and Status
        - Typical status properties
      - References to related objects
      - Lists of named subobjects preferred over maps
      - Primitive types
      - Constants
      - Unions
    - Lists and Simple kinds
  - Differing Representations
  - Verbs on Resources
    - PATCH operations
      - Strategic Merge Patch
  - Idempotency
  - Optional vs. Required
  - Defaulting
  - Late Initialization
  - Concurrency Control and Consistency
  - Serialization Format
  - Units
  - Selecting Fields
  - Object references
  - HTTP Status codes
      - Success codes
      - Error codes
  - Response Status Kind
  - Events
  - Naming conventions
  - Label, selector, and annotation conventions
  - WebSockets and SPDY
  - Validation

## Understand the Kubernetes cluster architecture.

- kubelet - The primary node agent that runs on each node. The kubelet takes a set of PodSpecs and ensures that the described containers are running and healthy.
- kube-apiserver - REST API that validates and configures data for API objects such as pods, services, replication controllers.
- kube-controller-manager - Daemon that embeds the core control loops shipped with Kubernetes.
- kube-proxy - Can do simple TCP/UDP stream forwarding or round-robin TCP/UDP forwarding across a set of back-ends.
- kube-scheduler - Scheduler that manages availability, performance, and capacity.
- federation-apiserver - API server for federated clusters.
- federation-controller-manager - Daemon that embeds the core control loops shipped with Kubernetes federation.


## Understand Services and other network primitives.
